Git Bash (initially it was UNIX)

Ctrl + Shift +"+" zoom in/out
clear | Clear console.
pwd - show directory path ( like cd )
ls - shown file list in current directory
	"ls -l" - in list;
	"ls-a" with hidden files
	"ls-la" list with hidden files
cd - change directory ( d: OR d:/git OR git/work)
	cd .. - will move the user up one directory (cd ../.. - down for 2 levels)
	"cd" -    home directory
	"cd -" - to the previous directory
	"cd  ~" - must press SPACE at end to this simbol shown. Go to home directory.cd
Press TAB one time - will write end by himself
Press TAB two times - will work like "ls"
--help (after some command) - will display help
git config --list  : show actual config of Git
git config --global ( user.email \ user.name \ etc. ) - setting default account indentity 
	Omitting --global to set parameters to this local repo

git init - make in current directory .git/ ( make this directory 'master' )
 touch Test.txt - make a new file Test.txt
git add test.txt  ( --all \"git add ." - all files) - add files to Staging Area
git commit -m "tytle of commit" -  move files next to Git Repository with Tytle of commit (-m "Tytle")
	git commit - move files next to Git Repository with opening default redactor (txt or nitepad++)
	to write Tytle to this commit (it needs to be setted )
git reset (file.txt or .) - move last commit to stage area. 
git checkout (test.txt OR " ."-all files) - restore working directory version to staging directory version(
	or commited if commit = stage) (vice versa "git add")
git restore  --stage . -restore staging area  to commited version 
rm - deleting from working directory
git rm - deleting from working and staging area
git log | show all commits history ; -- oneline | short form with start of control summ and message;
	-- patch | shows changes in every commit; --stat | History with statistical changes (number of
	changed,  inserted, deleted files ); --author (Egrakovitch) - commit history of this author only;
	It possible to complicate requests |( git log --author="Egrakovitch" --oneline --stat)
	git log -3 | shows last 3 commit
	git log --graph( --oneline) - graphical history
	git log --online -- Test.txt - commit history related with this file




VIM:
vim file.txt : opening file in vim redactor
At star at read only. To redacting we must press 'i' , at the end press ESC - to close session of editing
:q - close redactor without saving, :wq - write and qute ( must start writing with ":")

Change home dir :
1. Click the start menu, start typing “Environment” and then select “Edit environment variables for user account”.
2. Under user variables click New and then set the name of the variable to be HOME and the value to be whatever
folder path you want to be your new default.
3. Save it, and close Git Bash if it’s open.